So we mostly finished all
the authentication work.
I think what was left is just getting
it to redirect to the new user,
which we will need to do and
I'll talk about that in a minute.
And we gotta set some stuff
up before we can do that.
But yeah, it's mostly there for
free, right.
ClerkJS makes it pretty simple
to set up authentication.
And you'll see once we use
some of those helpers inside
of our data fetching functions that it's
really, really, really simple to do.
So let's talk about that
whole new user thing.
So the reason we need to do that is mostly
just how ClerkJS handles authentication.
So if you follow along in their docs,
actually I don't even know where in
the docs they talk about it so
I'll just explain it.
But basically, we want to be able to sync.
So when you use a third-party service
like Clerk for authentication,
they keep track of all your users for you.
And that's cool, but I don't want some
other app keeping track of my users.
I wanna keep track of my
own users in my database.
I just don't want that to happen, so
I need to find some way to sync the users
that they create when people sign up
to my app with the database
of users that I have.
And they have a way to do that,
it's mostly through a webhook.
So if you don't know what a webhook is,
this basically means once
someone interacts with Clerk's APIs
to sign up, sign in, whatever,
they will then take a URL that I gave them
and issue a request of that URL to let
me know that someone has done something
and then I can sync my database.
The problem with that is that is
asynchronous, as in there's no way for
me to wait for a webhook, or
at least no elegant way, right.
If I'm waiting for
them to talk to my server,
that's a lot different than me
firing off an API request and
then getting a result back,
cuz in this case that's not happening.
Someone signs up and then I just have
to wait until, they hit my API, cool,
someone signed up,
let me sync the database.
And I don't want to let the user in
my app unless they're in my database.
So that means they're just gonna
be sitting there waiting, I guess,
while I'm polling some location on my back
end to see if the database got updated.
That's a little gross, so
I don't wanna do that.
So instead,
what we're gonna do is we're going to
redirect the user to another page.
In that page we'll do some server side
logic through a server component that will
then take the authentication logic
that is already in the browser,
fetch the user from Clerk, and then
create a user in the database there and
then anything else we need for the user.
So this is where if you had to create a
customer, you had to set up a project for
the user, anything you need to
initialize you would do it there
on the server cuz it's
a server side component.
And only then do we redirect them to,
in this case, journal.
So that's what we wanna do.
But in order to do any of that we gotta
make a database, and a database schema,
and set all that up, so
that's what we're gonna do next
>> Can you explain a webhook a little
better.
I think I know what you're talking about,
but more context would be helpful for me.
>> Explain what, what was it?
>> Webhook.
>> Webhook, yes, okay.
So what is a webhook?
A webhook is essentially,
it's like an event, okay.
Let's talk about two servers, let's
talk about GitHub and then your server.
So if you created a webhook on GitHub,
and let's say you
wanted to subscribe to the pull
request comment event, okay.
So what would happen is you would
give GitHub a URL to your API,
let's say you have
yourwebsite.com/API/webhooks, all right.
And you say hey, GitHub, I wanna subscribe
to the pull request comment event.
So GitHub's like, okay cool,
whenever someone makes a comment on a pull
request I'm going to issue a request to
the URL that you gave me with the event
information, whatever information they
wanna send they're gonna send it to you.
And then that way you can respond to that,
you can take that information and,
I don't know, let's say your app is a
Slack bot that shows Slack messages every
time someone makes a message
on a pull request.
So your server will then get notified by
GitHub that someone made a comment, and
then now you can issue a Slack message
in Slack because you just got notified.
So it makes your app real time because
you get notified by events, and
that's basically what a webhook is.
And that's great in that scenario
because no one went in Slack and
was like,
show me the pull request messages.
So they were not waiting on it, it just
came in, which is a great use case for
webhooks.
But if you're like, I click this button,
I fire off a request,
but now I have to wait until
the server that I talk to comes back.
Webhooks aren't good for that because you
don't know when it's gonna come back and
it's not responding to a request,
it's requesting your server,
it's actually the opposite.
So the only way to know that, to keep it
serial inside your webhook handler is
to update some state somewhere,
typically a database.
And then on your front end you just
keep polling to see if that thing
got updated in the database, and if it
did you knew that the webhook got fired.
And that's just it's not fun to do,
so I'm not gonna sit here and
write polling logic and
do stuff like that.
So we're just gonna use
this shortcut to do that.